[DOC-212] Node agent FAQs (#20751)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/faq/yugabyte-platform.md

- You can choose dedicated IOPs EBS drives on AWS and specify the number of dedicated IOPS you need.

YugabyteDB Anywhere also allows creating these machines out of band and importing them as an on-premises install.

## Node agent

### What is a node agent?

Node agent is an RPC service running on a YugabyteDB node, and is used to manage communication between YugabyteDB Anywhere and the nodes in universes. It includes the following functions:

- Invoke shell commands directly on the remote host, similar to running commands over SSH. Like SSH, the agent also does shell-login such that any previous command modifying the environment in the resource files (for example, `~/.bashrc`) gets reflected in the subsequent command.
- Invoke procedures or methods on the node agent.
- Additionally, for on-premises (manually provisioned nodes) deployments, node agent also functions as a utility to run preflight checks, and add node instances.

### How is node agent installed on a YugabyteDB node?

> 

Reviewer: I know that this is redundant information but it might be good to add this information here about the ways YBA allows users to provision the node (@aishwarya24 and @nkhogen please see if this is redundant)

Currently there are 3 ways of provisioning the node depending upon the level of access provided to YBA:

- First, is automatic provisioning where an ssh user with sudo access is given to YBA for the node (e.g. the ec2-user for AWS EC2 instances)
- Second, is assisted manual provisioning via a script (provision_instance.py) where YBA doesn't have access to an ssh user with sudo access BUT the user can run a script interactively on YBA and provide the script with parameters for credentials for the ssh user with sudo access
- Third, is fully manual provisioning where neither YBA has access to an ssh user with sudo access nor the user has access to an ssh user with sudo access. In this case, only a local (non-ssh) user is available with sudo access and the user has to follow manual steps (link to fully manual provisioning) to provision the node

Installation depends on how the nodes are provisioned.

> For cloud (AWS, GCP, and Azure) and non-manual on-premises (sudo access provided) providers, agents are automatically installed on each universe node during provisioning using SSH. A sudo user with SSH access (for example, ec2-user for AWS) is required. After the node agent is installed, all the legacy SSH calls are replaced with node agent calls. Just like an SSH daemon, node agent is run as a root user to perform provisioning of the nodes. After node provisioning, you can revoke the SSH access, but it's recommended to enable the access for debugging.

Reviewer: Change non-manual to automatic.

For manually provisioned on-premises providers, node agent is installed on each node either using a script or manually as part of the manual provisioning process. For more information, refer to [Manually provision on-premises nodes](../../yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/on-premises-manual/).

### Why does YBA prompt for SSH details if the node agent is installed manually and can replace SSH?

> When creating an on-premises provider, you are prompted to provide SSH credentials, which are used during provisioning of non-manually provisioned providers. After provisioning and adding the instances to the provider (including installing the node agent), YugabyteDB Anywhere no longer requires SSH or sudo access to nodes.

Reviewer: change non-manually to automatically.

### How is node agent installed on a YugabyteDB node?

Installation depends on how the nodes are provisioned.

For cloud (AWS, GCP, and Azure) and non-manual on-premises (sudo access provided) providers, agents are automatically installed on each universe node during provisioning using SSH. A sudo user with SSH access (for example, ec2-user for AWS) is required. After the node agent is installed, all the legacy SSH calls are replaced with node agent calls. Just like an SSH daemon, node agent is run as a root user to perform provisioning of the nodes. After node provisioning, you can revoke the SSH access, but it's recommended to enable the access for debugging.

For manually provisioned on-premises providers, node agent is installed on each node either using a script or manually as part of the manual provisioning process. For more information, refer to [Manually provision on-premises nodes](../../yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/on-premises-manual/).

### Why does YBA prompt for SSH details if the node agent is installed manually and can replace SSH?

> When creating an on-premises provider, you are prompted to provide SSH credentials. After you have provisioned and added the instances to the provider (including installing the node agent), YugabyteDB Anywhere no longer requires SSH or sudo access to nodes.

Reviewer: We shouldn't mention that users can provide fictitious non-working SSH keys. Instead, we should mention that ssh keys are still required to connect to the node interactively for debugging purposes (Node Actions -> Connect). However, if you don't want to provide YBA with an ssh key (because you can log in to the nodes over ssh for debugging outside of YBA) then you may provide "dummy" ssh key in the on-prem provider.

If you are manually provisioning nodes, these credentials aren't needed and you can provide a fictitious non-working SSH key.

### What is registration and unregistration of node agent?

Node agent is a secure service that authenticates every remote call from YBA. This requires the following:

- Making YBA aware of the node agent service.
- Establishing trust between the node agent and YBA.

> This process of establishing a secure connection is called registration. Note that registration has nothing to do with a provider.

Reviewer: Note that, registration is making YBA and node aware of each other and trust each other. No provider level details are needed for registration.

> Unregistration is the process of removing the node agent entry from YBA such that there is no further communication.

Reviewer: In other words, unregistration makes YBA and the node forget each other.

### Why does node agent installation ask for provider and other details during on-prem manual node agent setup?

> Node agent registration internally does not need configuration values such as region, availability zone, and so on, but it still requests the details because of the additional preflight check capability that it provides. It stores the configuration details in a config file called `$NODE_AGENT_HOME/config/config.yml`, and the values are used when the preflight check is run, or the node is added to the node instance of the provider. This is convenient when you run the command as you don't have to provide the input values again.

Reviewer: As mentioned above, node agent is used to run pre-flight checks on the node during various day-0 and day-2 operations. These pre-checks need information like the non-root user's home directory, expected port number for Node exporter, the NTP servers etc. which are attributes configured with a provider. In order to run these pre-flight checks the node agent needs to be configured to a provider in YBA. These details are needed to make the node agent aware of the YBA provider which the node will become a part of.

- You can choose dedicated IOPs EBS drives on AWS and specify the number of dedicated IOPS you need.

YugabyteDB Anywhere also allows creating these machines out of band and importing them as an on-premises install.

## Node agent

### What is a node agent?

Node agent is an RPC service running on a YugabyteDB node, and is used to manage communication between YugabyteDB Anywhere and the database node. It includes the following functions:

- Invoke shell commands directly on the remote host like running commands over SSH. Similar to SSH, the agent also does shell-login such that any previous command modifying the environment in the resource files (for example, `~/.bashrc`) gets reflected in the subsequent command.
- Invoke procedures or methods on the node agent.

> - For on-premesis (manual provisioned nodes), node agent functions as a utility to run preflight checks, and add a node instance.

Reviewer 2: node agent **also** functions as these functions are in addition to the communication agent (in the intro line).

For on-prem manual provisioning, an SSH user does not have sudo access, but sudo is available on the local YugabyteDB node with a password.

For more information, refer to [install node agent](../../yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/on-premises-manual/#install-node-agent).

### Why does YBA UI ask for SSH if the node agent is installed manually and can replace SSH?

This is because of the legacy UI. There are some cases where an SSH key is needed for integrity but a fictitious non-working SSH key can be supplied.

### What is registration and unregistration in node agent?

Node agent is a secure service that performs authentication on every remote call from YBA. The service requires a set-up to make:

- YBA aware of the node agent service.
- the node agent trust YBA and vice-versa.

> This step is called registration. Note that registration has nothing to do with a provider.

Reviewer 2: @ddhodge had a question on this. step = set-up mentioned above.
The whole process of the secure set-up is called registration.

> Unregistration is the step to disconnect YBA and a node agent from each other.

Reviewer 2: IMO, disconnect can mean aborting an existing connection. May be something like remove node-agent entry from YBA such that they do not know each other.

Node agent registration internally does not need configuration values such as region, availability zone, and so on, but it still requests the details because of the additional preflight check capability that it provides. It stores the configuration details in a config file called `$NODE_AGENT_HOME/config/config.yml`, and the values are used when the preflight check is run, or the node is added to the node instance of the provider. This is convenient when you run the command as you don't have to provide the input values again.

### What happens if I want to change the provider settings of a node agent, or move it to another provider?

A node agent does not need to be unregistered to move a provider as it is not tied to a provider. Following are the steps to change the provider prior to YBA version 2.18.5:

1. Remove the node instance from the provider if it is already added.
1. Unregister the existing node agent (This step is only required prior to YBA v2.18.5).
1. Stop the `systemd` service.
1. Run the installation again, or the command `node-agent node configure`. Running the command is faster as it does not install node agent again.
1. Start the `systemd` service.

> For YBA version 2.18.5 and later, do the following:

Reviewer 2: 2.18.6

Reviewer 2: or 2.20.2

1. Remove the node instance from the provider if it is already added using the command `node-agent node delete-instance`.
1. Run the command `node-agent node configure`.

As long as the IP does not change, the node agent does not try to register again.

> Note that the first step to change the provider is very important because after the provider configuration information changes in the config file as part of the second step, the node agent can't find the node to delete it as the scope is always with the provider and availability zone.

Reviewer 2: first step to change the provider  => first step to remove the node instance from the provider

### How to disable a node agent?

A node agent can be disabled anytime at the [provider scope](../../yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/manage-runtime-config/). It defaults to SSH for remote communication. The config key name is `yb.node_agent.client.enabled`.

### How to change the node agent default port of 9070?

Use the global [runtime configuration](../../yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/manage-runtime-config/) key `yb.node_agent.server.port`. The change is reflected only on newly created node agents.

### Is it okay to manually edit the configuration file for node agent?

It is not recommended to do so because editing the file can interfere with the self-upgrade workflow. If it is a minor change, it is better to stop the node agent service first to keep YBA away from starting the upgrade process.

### How does YBA determine that a node instance record maps to a node agent entry if they are not related?

YBA uses the IP address to identify a node instance. The IP can be a DNS from YBA version 2.18.5 and later.

> For YBA versions later than 2.18.5, a bind address that defaults to the IP will be added in case a DNS is supplied and the node agent has to listen to a specific interface IP.

Reviewer 2: 2.18.6 or 2.20.2

### How does YBA clean up node agents for on-prem non-manual nodes?

> YBA removes the node agent entry when the node is cleaned up. You can choose to leave the node agent service running, but when the node is again re-used, the node agent is re-installed.

Reviewer 2: when the node is cleaned up => when YBA releases the node back to the node instances pool of the provider.

Installation depends on how the nodes are provisioned.

> Currently, there are 3 ways of provisioning a node depending on the level of access provided to YBA as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently, there are three ways to provision a node, depending on the level of access provided to YBA, as follows:
```
